README.md, before:

# Flux Talk

A hybrid AI chatbot application designed for quick, private, and flexible interactions. This system provides a conversational interface with seamless switching between local (private, offline-capable) and online AI modes.

## Features

- **🔄 Mode Switching**: Toggle between local (LM Studio), Grok (xAI), and OpenAI providers
- **💾 Persistent Chat History**: All messages stored locally in SQLite
- **🧠 Context Enhancement**: Vector database (Chroma) for intelligent context retrieval
- **📱 iOS App**: Native SwiftUI mobile interface
- **🌐 Web Interface**: React-based desktop/browser access
- **🔐 Privacy First**: Local-first architecture with optional cloud AI

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌──────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│  iOS App    │────▶│              │────▶│  LM Studio  │
│  (SwiftUI)  │     │    Vapor     │     │   (Local)   │
└─────────────┘     │   Backend    │     └─────────────┘
                    │   (Swift)    │     ┌─────────────┐
┌─────────────┐     │              │────▶│    Grok     │
│   Web App   │────▶│              │     │   (Online)  │
│  (React)    │     │              │     └─────────────┘
└─────────────┘     │              │     ┌─────────────┐
                    │              │────▶│   OpenAI    │
                    └──────────────┘     │   (Online)  │
                            │            └─────────────┘
                            │
                    ┌───────┴────────┐
                    │   SQLite +     │
                    │   Chroma DB    │
                    └────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Vapor (server-side Swift) on port 8080
- **Databases**: 
  - SQLite for chat message persistence
  - Chroma for vector embeddings and context retrieval
- **iOS Frontend**: SwiftUI with Exyte/Chat library
- **Web Frontend**: React.js with Vite
- **AI Integration**:
  - Local: LM Studio (OpenAI-compatible API)
  - Online: Grok API (xAI) or OpenAI API

## Prerequisites

### Required
- Swift 5.9+ (for backend - uses Swift 5.9 for Vapor compatibility)
- Swift 6.0+ (for iOS app development)
- Node.js 18+ (for web frontend)
- LM Studio (for local AI mode) - https://lmstudio.ai/

### Optional
- Xcode 15+ (for iOS development)
- Chroma vector database (for context enhancement)
- Grok API key (for Grok mode)
- OpenAI API key (for OpenAI mode)

## Quick Start

### 1. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend

# (Optional) Set API keys for online modes
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your API keys

# Build and run the backend
swift build
swift run
```

The backend server will start on `http://localhost:8080`

### 2. LM Studio Setup (for Local Mode)

1. Download and install LM Studio from https://lmstudio.ai/
2. Download a model (e.g., Mistral, Llama 2, etc.)
3. Start the local server in LM Studio:
   - Go to the "Local Server" tab
   - Click "Start Server"
   - Default port is 1234

### 3. Web App Setup

```bash
cd web-app

# Install dependencies
npm install

# (Optional) Configure API URL
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env if backend is on a different host

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

The web app will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

### 4. iOS App Setup

```bash
cd ios-app/FluxTalk

# Build the package
swift build

# Or open in Xcode and run
open Package.swift
```

In the iOS app:
1. Go to Settings
2. Update "Server URL" to your backend IP (e.g., `http://192.168.1.100:8080`)
3. Choose your preferred AI mode

### 5. Chroma Setup (Optional - for Context Enhancement)

```bash
# Install Chroma
pip install chromadb

# Run Chroma server
chroma run --host localhost --port 8000
```

## Usage

### Web Interface

1. Open http://localhost:3000 in your browser
2. Click the Settings button (⚙️) to:
   - Switch between AI modes (Local/Grok/OpenAI)
   - Add knowledge to the vector database
   - Clear chat history
3. Type messages in the input box and press Send

### iOS App

1. Launch the app on your iOS device or simulator
2. Tap the gear icon to access settings:
   - Configure server URL
   - Switch AI modes
   - Clear history
3. Chat with the AI using the message input

### Adding Context Knowledge

**Web Interface:**
1. Click Settings
2. Go to "Knowledge Base" section
3. Enter text content
4. Click "Add Knowledge"

**API:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/vector/add \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"content": "Your knowledge here", "metadata": {"source": "manual"}}'
```

## API Endpoints

### Chat
- `POST /api/chat` - Send a message
  ```json
  {
    "message": "Hello!",
    "useContext": true
  }
  ```
- `GET /api/chat/history` - Get chat history
- `DELETE /api/chat/history` - Clear chat history

### Settings
- `GET /api/settings` - Get all settings
- `GET /api/settings/:key` - Get specific setting
- `POST /api/settings` - Set a setting
  ```json
  {
    "key": "ai_mode",
    "value": "local"
  }
  ```

### Vector Database
- `POST /api/vector/add` - Add content to vector DB
- `POST /api/vector/search` - Search vector DB

### Health Check
- `GET /health` - Server health status

## Configuration

### AI Mode Settings

The system supports three AI modes:

1. **Local Mode** (default)
   - Uses LM Studio running on localhost:1234
   - Completely private and offline
   - No API keys required

2. **Grok Mode**
   - Uses xAI's Grok API
   - Requires `GROK_API_KEY` environment variable
   - Set in `backend/.env`

3. **OpenAI Mode**
   - Uses OpenAI's GPT models
   - Requires `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
   - Set in `backend/.env`

### Network Configuration

For cross-device access:
1. Find your computer's local IP address
2. Update the backend to listen on all interfaces (already configured: `0.0.0.0:8080`)
3. In iOS app settings, set server URL to `http://YOUR_IP:8080`
4. In web app `.env`, set `VITE_API_URL=http://YOUR_IP:8080`

## Project Structure

```
flux_talk/
├── backend/                    # Vapor backend server
│   ├── Sources/
│   │   └── FluxTalkBackend/
│   │       ├── Models/        # Database models
│   │       ├── Controllers/   # API controllers
│   │       ├── Services/      # AI and Vector DB services
│   │       ├── DTOs/          # Data transfer objects
│   │       └── Migrations/    # Database migrations
│   └── Package.swift
├── ios-app/                   # iOS application
│   └── FluxTalk/
│       └── FluxTalk/
│           ├── Models/        # Data models
│           ├── Views/         # SwiftUI views
│           ├── ViewModels/    # View models
│           └── Services/      # API service
├── web-app/                   # React web application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/       # React components
│   │   ├── services/         # API service
│   │   └── styles/           # CSS styles
│   └── package.json
└── README.md
```

## Development

### Building for Production

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
swift build -c release
.build/release/FluxTalkBackend
```

**Web App:**
```bash
cd web-app
npm run build
# Serve the dist/ folder with a static server
```

**iOS App:**
1. Open in Xcode
2. Select your target device/simulator
3. Product → Archive
4. Follow the distribution workflow

### Testing

The backend includes health check endpoint:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

Test the chat API:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message": "Hello, AI!"}'
```

## Troubleshooting

### Backend won't start
- Check if port 8080 is already in use
- Verify Swift version: `swift --version`
- Check database file permissions

### LM Studio not connecting
- Ensure LM Studio server is running on port 1234
- Check if a model is loaded in LM Studio
- Verify localhost connectivity

### iOS app can't connect
- Ensure devices are on the same network
- Check server URL in app settings
- Verify backend is running and accessible
- Check firewall settings

### Web app API errors
- Verify `VITE_API_URL` in `.env`
- Check browser console for CORS errors
- Ensure backend CORS is properly configured

### Chroma not working
- Verify Chroma is running on port 8000
- Check Chroma logs for errors
- For MVP, the system will work without Chroma (falls back to simple embeddings)

## Roadmap

Future enhancements for this MVP:
- [ ] Media support (images, voice)
- [ ] Advanced vector DB querying
- [ ] User authentication
- [ ] Multiple conversation threads
- [ ] Export/import chat history
- [ ] Custom model parameters
- [ ] Push notifications (iOS)
- [ ] Dark mode
- [ ] Multi-language support

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Support

For issues and questions, please open an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

Add dynamic Chroma URL and v1 API support in VectorDBService
VectorDBService now reads the Chroma server URL from the CHROMA_URL environment variable and uses the Chroma v1 REST API for collection management and queries. The service dynamically creates or fetches the collection and caches its ID, improving compatibility with recent Chroma releases. Updated README with new environment variable and API version notes.

README.md, after:

# Flux Talk

A hybrid AI chatbot application designed for quick, private, and flexible interactions. This system provides a conversational interface with seamless switching between local (private, offline-capable) and online AI modes.

## Features

- **🔄 Mode Switching**: Toggle between local (LM Studio), Grok (xAI), and OpenAI providers
- **💾 Persistent Chat History**: All messages stored locally in SQLite
- **🧠 Context Enhancement**: Vector database (Chroma) for intelligent context retrieval
- **📱 iOS App**: Native SwiftUI mobile interface
- **🌐 Web Interface**: React-based desktop/browser access
- **🔐 Privacy First**: Local-first architecture with optional cloud AI

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌──────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│  iOS App    │────▶│              │────▶│  LM Studio  │
│  (SwiftUI)  │     │    Vapor     │     │   (Local)   │
└─────────────┘     │   Backend    │     └─────────────┘
                    │   (Swift)    │     ┌─────────────┐
┌─────────────┐     │              │────▶│    Grok     │
│   Web App   │────▶│              │     │   (Online)  │
│  (React)    │     │              │     └─────────────┘
└─────────────┘     │              │     ┌─────────────┐
                    │              │────▶│   OpenAI    │
                    └──────────────┘     │   (Online)  │
                            │            └─────────────┘
                            │
                    ┌───────┴────────┐
                    │   SQLite +     │
                    │   Chroma DB    │
                    └────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Vapor (server-side Swift) on port 8080
- **Databases**: 
  - SQLite for chat message persistence
  - Chroma for vector embeddings and context retrieval
- **iOS Frontend**: SwiftUI with Exyte/Chat library
- **Web Frontend**: React.js with Vite
- **AI Integration**:
  - Local: LM Studio (OpenAI-compatible API)
  - Online: Grok API (xAI) or OpenAI API

## Prerequisites

### Required
- Swift 5.9+ (for backend - uses Swift 5.9 for Vapor compatibility)
- Swift 6.0+ (for iOS app development)
- Node.js 18+ (for web frontend)
- LM Studio (for local AI mode) - https://lmstudio.ai/

### Optional
- Xcode 15+ (for iOS development)
- Chroma vector database (for context enhancement)
- Grok API key (for Grok mode)
- OpenAI API key (for OpenAI mode)

## Quick Start

### 1. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend

# (Optional) Set API keys for online modes
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your API keys

# Build and run the backend
swift build
swift run
```

The backend server will start on `http://localhost:8080`

### 2. LM Studio Setup (for Local Mode)

1. Download and install LM Studio from https://lmstudio.ai/
2. Download a model (e.g., Mistral, Llama 2, etc.)
3. Start the local server in LM Studio:
   - Go to the "Local Server" tab
   - Click "Start Server"
   - Default port is 1234

### 3. Web App Setup

```bash
cd web-app

# Install dependencies
npm install

# (Optional) Configure API URL
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env if backend is on a different host

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

The web app will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

### 4. iOS App Setup

```bash
cd ios-app/FluxTalk

# Build the package
swift build

# Or open in Xcode and run
open Package.swift
```

In the iOS app:
1. Go to Settings
2. Update "Server URL" to your backend IP (e.g., `http://192.168.1.100:8080`)
3. Choose your preferred AI mode

### 5. Chroma Setup (Optional - for Context Enhancement)

```bash
# Install Chroma
pip install chromadb

# Run Chroma server
chroma run --host localhost --port 8000

# If your Chroma server runs elsewhere
export CHROMA_URL=http://localhost:8000
```

The backend will automatically create the `flux_talk_context` collection the first time you add or search knowledge. The Chroma REST API used is `api/v1`, so make sure you're on a recent Chroma release (`chroma --version`).

## Usage

### Web Interface

1. Open http://localhost:3000 in your browser
2. Click the Settings button (⚙️) to:
   - Switch between AI modes (Local/Grok/OpenAI)
   - Add knowledge to the vector database
   - Clear chat history
3. Type messages in the input box and press Send

### iOS App

1. Launch the app on your iOS device or simulator
2. Tap the gear icon to access settings:
   - Configure server URL
   - Switch AI modes
   - Clear history
3. Chat with the AI using the message input

### Adding Context Knowledge

**Web Interface:**
1. Click Settings
2. Go to "Knowledge Base" section
3. Enter text content
4. Click "Add Knowledge"

**API:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/vector/add \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"content": "Your knowledge here", "metadata": {"source": "manual"}}'
```

## API Endpoints

### Chat
- `POST /api/chat` - Send a message
  ```json
  {
    "message": "Hello!",
    "useContext": true
  }
  ```
- `GET /api/chat/history` - Get chat history
- `DELETE /api/chat/history` - Clear chat history

### Settings
- `GET /api/settings` - Get all settings
- `GET /api/settings/:key` - Get specific setting
- `POST /api/settings` - Set a setting
  ```json
  {
    "key": "ai_mode",
    "value": "local"
  }
  ```

### Vector Database
- `POST /api/vector/add` - Add content to vector DB
- `POST /api/vector/search` - Search vector DB

### Health Check
- `GET /health` - Server health status

## Configuration

### AI Mode Settings

The system supports three AI modes:

1. **Local Mode** (default)
   - Uses LM Studio running on localhost:1234
   - Completely private and offline
   - No API keys required

2. **Grok Mode**
   - Uses xAI's Grok API
   - Requires `GROK_API_KEY` environment variable
   - Set in `backend/.env`

3. **OpenAI Mode**
   - Uses OpenAI's GPT models
   - Requires `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
   - Set in `backend/.env`

### Network Configuration

For cross-device access:
1. Find your computer's local IP address
2. Update the backend to listen on all interfaces (already configured: `0.0.0.0:8080`)
3. In iOS app settings, set server URL to `http://YOUR_IP:8080`
4. In web app `.env`, set `VITE_API_URL=http://YOUR_IP:8080`

## Project Structure

```
flux_talk/
├── backend/                    # Vapor backend server
│   ├── Sources/
│   │   └── FluxTalkBackend/
│   │       ├── Models/        # Database models
│   │       ├── Controllers/   # API controllers
│   │       ├── Services/      # AI and Vector DB services
│   │       ├── DTOs/          # Data transfer objects
│   │       └── Migrations/    # Database migrations
│   └── Package.swift
├── ios-app/                   # iOS application
│   └── FluxTalk/
│       └── FluxTalk/
│           ├── Models/        # Data models
│           ├── Views/         # SwiftUI views
│           ├── ViewModels/    # View models
│           └── Services/      # API service
├── web-app/                   # React web application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/       # React components
│   │   ├── services/         # API service
│   │   └── styles/           # CSS styles
│   └── package.json
└── README.md
```

## Development

### Building for Production

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
swift build -c release
.build/release/FluxTalkBackend
```

**Web App:**
```bash
cd web-app
npm run build
# Serve the dist/ folder with a static server
```

**iOS App:**
1. Open in Xcode
2. Select your target device/simulator
3. Product → Archive
4. Follow the distribution workflow

### Testing

The backend includes health check endpoint:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

Test the chat API:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message": "Hello, AI!"}'
```

## Troubleshooting

### Backend won't start
- Check if port 8080 is already in use
- Verify Swift version: `swift --version`
- Check database file permissions

### LM Studio not connecting
- Ensure LM Studio server is running on port 1234
- Check if a model is loaded in LM Studio
- Verify localhost connectivity

### iOS app can't connect
- Ensure devices are on the same network
- Check server URL in app settings
- Verify backend is running and accessible
- Check firewall settings

### Web app API errors
- Verify `VITE_API_URL` in `.env`
- Check browser console for CORS errors
- Ensure backend CORS is properly configured

### Chroma not working
- Verify Chroma is running on port 8000
- Check Chroma logs for errors
- For MVP, the system will work without Chroma (falls back to simple embeddings)

## Roadmap

Future enhancements for this MVP:
- [ ] Media support (images, voice)
- [ ] Advanced vector DB querying
- [ ] User authentication
- [ ] Multiple conversation threads
- [ ] Export/import chat history
- [ ] Custom model parameters
- [ ] Push notifications (iOS)
- [ ] Dark mode
- [ ] Multi-language support

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Support

For issues and questions, please open an issue on GitHub.
